Assignment # 02: Practicing Control-Flow (Decision-Making Structures and Loops)

Objective:
To help you understand and apply control-flow in Python Programming.
-	Use if, if-else and if-elif-else statements in make decisions in program.
-	Practice using for and while loops to repeat actions based on conditions.
-	Learn to combine conditional statements and loop to solve real-world problems.
-	Develop logical thinking by implementing different control-flow structures.

Part 1: Decision-Making Structures 
1.	Write a program that checks if a given number is positive, negative or zero.
2.	Write a program to find the larger of the two numbers.
3.	Write a program to find the largest of the three numbers.
4.	Write a program to check if the given string “Mass” is present in the string “Saylani Mass IT”. If the string is present then display the message “string found”.
5.	Write a program to take user’s age as input and display whether he is minor, adult or senior citizen:
a.	Minor age is less than 18.
b.	Adult age is greater than 18 and less than 60
c.	Senior citizen age is greater than 60
6.	Write a program to take integer as input and check if it is even or odd.
7.	Write a program to take two numbers and an operator (/,x,+,-) as input and perform the corresponding operation.
8.	Write a program to take number as input and check if it lies in the range i.e. 20(inclusive) – 40 (exclusive)
9.	Write a program that ask for an integer number and checks if it is divisible by 2, 3, or both.
10.	Write a program to take user’s score as input and determine if they pass or fail (pass if score is above 60, otherwise fails.)
11.	Write a program that evaluates if an input number is prime.
12.	Write a program that takes a temperature in Celsius and checks if it is freezing, moderate or hot.
a.	Freezing temperature is below 0.
b.	Moderate temperature is greater than 0 and less than 26.
c.	Hot temperature is above 26.


Part-2: Loops
1.	Write a program to print numbers from 1 to 30 using for loop.
2.	Write a program to print even numbers from 1 to 50 using while loop.
3.	Write a program to print multiplication table of a given number.
4.	Write a program to print odd numbers from 1 to 50 using while loop.
5.	Write a program to calculate the sum of all numbers from 1 to 50 using for loop.
6.	Write a program to print each character of a string.
7.	Write a program to compute the factorial of a number using while loop.
8.	Write a program to print numbers from 10 down to 1.
[Hint: first check the sequence generated by range function on IDLE using this command i.e. list(range(10, 0, -1))]
9.	Write a program that continues to ask user to input password until the correct password is entered.
10.	Write a program to print the square of each number from 1 to 10 using for loop.
11.	Write a program to calculate the sum of even and odd numbers and print them. (numbers from 1 to 50)

Bonus Challenge:
Write a program to print the first 10 Fibonacci numbers using for loop.
Hint: First 10 Fibanacci numbers are  0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,34
